I think it's important to cover some
of these other tools that you can
use on top of hyper log to build cap
architecture with materialized views and
this kind of stuff.
One of them, something I made on top
of hyper log called hyper log index.
You can use this to kind of walk
the documents in the lug piece by piece.
And then once you see every document,
you can kind of update an index.
One of the best things about a cap
architecture is that you can,
because the log is the source of
truth whatever indexes you make,
you can just delete them and
regenerate them if you change your
mind about how they should work later.
So if you've ever had to
do a migration with a more
mutable kind of database,
it really is painful and
it's not something that people
should really have to work so
hard to get right because if you use
a different kind of architecture instead
like a cap architecture, you could
just delete that database directory or
like delete your index DB or
what have you, and just build it again.
And so
long as that operation is cheap enough,
then, you don't have to think very hard.
And you can change your mind later
about how your indexes work.
As your program evolves as
your requirements change.
So here's what it looks like
to use hyper log index.
What we can do
here in a moment is build
a little Key value system
that uses an idea for a conflict strategy
called the multi value register.
And this is the way of solving conflicts
where you don't actually decide anything
because it's subjective and really maybe
the only true thing that you can say about
a fork is that there are two forks and
maybe your program should
just be able to deal with
what's true instead of fabricating
some comforting lie about your data.
That's not actually true.
So here's the API for
hyper log index, you pass in a log,
you pass in LevelDB handle, if you want
to just reuse the same LevelDB handle for
your hyper log DB and
your hyper log index db,
you can use sub level for that or
you can have two separate ones.
And then you provide a map function.
So this map function is gonna run for
every document in your database and
It's your job to sort of store whatever
data you need to store in whatever kind of
index in that could be a SQL database,
that could be
Maybe you have a human who's like gonna
tally some marks on a piece of paper and
then press the Enter key to call next.
I don't know, whatever you like.
So once you do that, then you can
ask questions about the index.
Like based on whatever kind of
scheme you have for doing that.
Okay, so I guess our data is probably
in an okay enough state to do this.
It just so happens that one of the easiest
things that you can build is multi
value register conflict strategy.
It happens to be the read me example and
hyperlink index, I'am just
gonna copy it,
I guess this one is a bit longer,
anyways, right here's the example that
I'm just going to copy that does this,
Conflict strategy that's not
really a conflict strategy at all.
It just preserves the forks if they exist,
because that's a true thing.
Not a false thing.
I'll call this file dex.js and
paste that in.
Whoops.
And then I'll load in some of the other
stuff that we had in the house.
So, just gonna take the first bit, and
we'll load from our log
that we've already built.
I think we have messages, and
timestamps, and that kinda stuff.
So for example,
we wanna make an index that's gonna save
ISO 601 strings into LevelDB.
We can do that.
So I'm just gonna make
a new index database
instead of using sub level down for
this because that's a little bit easier.
So here we've got our log file,
this index is gonna walk the log
document by document and it's going to
be instead of this example, I'll just
I'll save that Timestamps instead.
So, db.put(row.value.time),
I think it was that we were saving,
I can ask our add function again
yeah the time which is an integer
but we want to save that a little bit more
in a format that a little bit more nicely.
So I'll use strf time to do that.Strf time
and so our key is going to
be strf time of new date
with that epoch seconds and
then percent f percent t.
Okay, cool.
So we put the key into our database.
And for the value,
we can just store the row key.
I think that'll work.
And I could have a function error, and
then call like, if error next error, etc.
Alice next, but
that's the same as doing this.
Okay, so this is our map,
we can also ask questions about
the index like whether it's caught up with
the latest known document in the log.
You can pass in index dot ready and
it'll be true in this case.
Just going to write things out to the log
and we can write a separate program to
just dump the stuff that we index
just to make sure that it works.
Okay, so
if I run that program now whoops I have
to actually include hyper log index.
So you do that really quick,
hyper log index..
Okay, so
now there's a new directory called ix.db.
And, we're gonna write a new list
program called ix list and
it's gonna dump things by the timestamp.
So, if we load that database, then we'll
just print everything out that's in there.
Hopefully there's something in there.
Goodness, what could it be?
Okay, I'm just gonna verify that our
indexer actually does something.
Luckily, it's an index database.
So with this architecture you can blow
this away whenever you want and try again.
Okay, so we do get the database
documents written into there, so
I wonder what's going on here.
We have the key,
is gonna print out what the key will be.
I think maybe it's because we didn't,
No, did that too.
So they key is that and
the value is gonna be row.key.
So just make sure that this is gonna work.
Aren't rf x db do that?
Okay, so it should have stored those
as the keys and those is the values.
That all looks good and
we load that database.
I see what it is.
We shouldn't be loading a hyper log in
our list indexer that's a bit silly.
So let's just get rid of that.
And that should be db.creatReadStream,
of course.
Silly mistake.
All right.
So hopefully there's something in there.
Alright.
Required too to, and
looks like we're not calling next or
something.
Just blow away the database
again because we can
do that whenever we want and
rerun our indexer,
now rerun our list function is
not looking like it ought to be
I see what the problem is.
I was writing into DB as well,
not into the other database.
Common problem when you're juggling
around different database handles, so
you have to remember to
write into the correct one.
So, if I change this now.
And rerun the indexer,
and now rerun that, it's
probably messed up because I was reading
all kinds of garbage into the logs.
So let's just a.
Let's start from a little bit earlier and
add some add some more data,
good data this time.
Hello and we don't need to have a first
message, our first set of keys so
like I and the second message and
we need to link to the first one
and then I am 3, needs to link to that.
That's probably enough data to test this.
So a run our indexer we
just wrote then I'm gonna
run the list and
still not getting anything.
Well, this didn't print
out any messages though.
I see another problem.
So many problems,
this is writing to log 2 that.
So starting from the beginning
[LAUGH] all right,
so again, get rid of that database,
get rid of that database.
And we can write out some messages.
So here I'm gonna write
out a message Hello.
We can write it out to another message
that's like I am doc number two.
We can link to the first message
by passing it in as an argument.
Can write out a third message,
just some threes and
blink to the first document, like so.
All right, so
now we've got some data in our log.
And now we can run the indexer program,
which should look at every
document in that log.
It should walk it one by one, and
it should save the timestamp out
to another database called ix.db.
Then later, we're gonna list out
the records in that in that database.
So, I'm gonna run the program.
Good.
It prints out the keys and
the values like I would expect.
And now if i do i x list.
There we go.
So, now we have our
materialized view on top of our
source of truth append only immutable log.
Very good.
[LAUGH]
Show they can fix that up in post.
It'll be very good.
>> Honestly I think the repetition
helped me understand a lot better.
>> Maybe not.
Maybe just leave it